We're still learning lessons about this and then Scientific American and, um, published something This week, COVID is actually the third leading cause of death in the US for this year.
It became the third leading cause of death March 4th and it was actually the first leading cause of death from April 5th to May 3rd.
And it's been the third leading cause of death with about the year and then indirect effects on Children in New York state.
This one was actually really quite heartbreaking.
Um, the United Hospital Fund found that 4200 Children in New York had lost a parent to COVID-19 this year.
About 950 were Children, single parents and say, Well, they lost their only parent.
Um oh, it was one in 1000 Children in New York state lost a parent to COVID-19, um, one in 600 black Children, one in 700 Hispanic Children in one of 1500 white Children, Um, 57% were in Queens, Brooklyn or the Bronx, which were the hardest hit areas.
That was really that was fairly heartbreaking.
And then they also found that 325,000 Children were pushed into poverty or near poverty in New York, which was roughly 8% of Children in New York who had not been poverty before COVID-19 started.
And they estimated it was gonna cost anywhere from 550 to 800 million just to support the basic needs of these Children and household severe new, newly newly in or near poverty over the next year.
And they estimate that 40% of low income workers lost their jobs throughout the United States.
And those, of course, are the people who are the least able to absorb financial hit like that.
And I decided not to go into this.
This is fairly similar to the one I presented from Minnesota Department of Health last week, but there was a COVID-19 response toolkit it from the public elementary schools on how to deal with Children who are symptomatic or have a positive COVID in their family or an exposure, and then also updating from American Academy of Pediatrics on COVID-19 testing guidance.
And like I said, they're fairly similar to what we've already talked about.
But it was nice to have something from local, and the last was just some articles that I thought were really good.
