text
So the first thing was the data published in The New England Journal about the Moderna vaccine in older patients that, you know influenza and other vaccines are not as influenza vaccines and other vaccines are usually not as effective in older groups, so it's important to take a look at how the new vaccines that we are developing against COVID-19 work in older folks.
This publication by Moderna was was welcomed.
They actually look at the data for patients 56 70 and also over 71.
And they were testing the two doses in their two protocols, the 25 microgram and a 100 microgram.
And I can tell you right right off the bat that they're gonna use probably the old the higher dose for elderly patients.
So the 100 microgram dose and we're going to show some of the results today.
This is the basically the protocol.
They have four groups.
10 in each group, 10 patients in the group.
This is an early early story, 20 in that group of 56 to 70 and 20 in the more than than 71.
And they were pretty balanced regarding gender and ethnicity.
But mostly, mostly, were actually whites are not too many minorities represented in this study, which is an issue with some of these vaccine trials.
The adverse event.
It's something that we're used to see.
The first vaccination, which is the column on the left, doesn't produce that much in the way of adverse events.
Some local expected local discomfort, but the second dose is definitely much more reactive.
Janick and this is across the board, younger and older people.
But it's it's also present in the elderly, so it's important.
And I think all of the bad things that we have seen are associated with significant react allergenicity, which is bad for the patient.
But it's good if you take it in into the if you interpret these as an immunological reaction to the vaccine, so it's not an inert material.
It's actually something that you get some low grade fever, fatigue, soreness in the area of injection, but Hopefully, this will correlate with immune response and talking about immune response that one of the most important markers are the neutralizing antibodies.
And this.
We have the 2 25 doses in the 50 to 70 more than 71 the 100 mg, and you can see that the basically the levels of neutralizing antibody, especially the high dose the 100 mg, produces the same levels of antibody as younger patient.
This is the column of 18 to 55 from the previous published study, so you can see that the levels of antibodies and the neutralizing antibodies was very similar when you use the 100 microgram in in any age, essentially 56 to 70 and 71.
So that was good news that this vaccine seems to be immunogenic even in in older in older patients.
You send these FRNT, which is one of the assays when you use with the real virus PRNT you can see there's a slight decrease in the neutralizing antibody between the younger group 56 to 70 and more than 71 but still pretty decent levels which are comparable with with what we've seen in the younger population.
So So that's That's the good news about these Moderna vaccine that it seems to be immunogenic for elderly folks.
And the same thing happens with the T-cell response, the cellular immunity.
Definitely the low dose didn't mount almost any response.
This is the T CD4 Th1 response.
But you can see that there's an important cell mediated immunity response in the higher dose for both Group 56 to 70 and more than 71 so that these results are the one that indicate that we're going to probably use the high dose or or the high goes where we use Moderna, especially for early patients.
And no, no, Th2 two, which is the the the one that we don't want the type of response that may be associated with pulmonary inflammation.
It's basically not present with any of the doses in any of the age group, so that was also good news.
And and there was one publication on hydroxychloroquine.
