So how can we Ah, how can we quantify the increased risk that we're seeing in patients with diabetes?
And there was a recently a preliminary report that came out of the UK This was, uh, looking at the national health system database.
So, uh, they have over 60 million individuals registered in that database.
And of that, 60 million 0.4% of those have type one, which is autoimmune diabetes, and almost 5% have type two diabetes with the one we associate with insulin resistance.
Like the case we just heard today and, um, of this data base, there were over 20,000 COVID-19 related deaths.
Um, interestingly, a third of those occurred in patients with diabetes.
Very alarming statistic there just by itself.
If we look at the odds of of death from COVID-19 the odds ratio of mortality, you can say you can see that compared to patients without diabetes, the risk of dying was much higher, 3.5 times more likely to experience mortality related to COVID-19 in a patient with type one diabetes.
You know the risk was also increased in type two diabetes, with an odds ratio of two so two times more likely to die of COVID-19.
So this this report not only demonstrates that there's a higher risk of public or depth specifically in this in this study, but also that the risk might even be higher in patients with type one versus Type two diabetes.
So those with the auto immune diabetes, the risk appears to be almost double that of those with Type two diabetes.
And then again, both of them are at much higher risk compared to those without diabetes.
Interestingly, this was a very age dependent finding, So this is the same the same series here, and you could see the risk of mortality so the red line here represents Type one diabetes.
The blue line represents the cohort with Type two diabetes and then the black line.
It is the general population and kind of mirroring what we see in the general population, where the risk of mortality increases with age, especially once you get up into the 60 seventies and 80 plus but, um, higher with type one and type two diabetes, um, below the age of 40 or so it's ah, the risk of mortality is is much lower, even in those with diabetes so higher risk and those with diabetes of mortality and strongly age dependent.
All right, so I alluded to the impact of glycemia control earlier.
