And it was on the science of persuasion.
How you can, um I guess there's actually been a lot of studies on How do you persuade people to do things and, um, opportune lessons for COVID-19 prevention.
So they talked about the five habit promoting strategies which, um, if you want somebody to develop a habit, get exercising or, um, eating more vegetables or wearing a mask.
They said there's five things to do.
You want to make it easy to start and easy to repeat.
You wanna make it rewarding to repeat, you want to tie the behavior to an existing habit.
And I know I do this with people all the time suggesting they take pills when they first like that, and talk about behaviors that conflict with existing habits and provide alternative behaviors and provide specific descriptions of desire behaviors and they discussed for, um, the first one of making the behavior easy to start.
Repeat, making handwashing stations and hand sanitizer available everywhere really makes a difference on how often people wash their hands, and you know it's obvious.
But, um, often we don't have hand sanitizer readily available, so making it readily available.
Then they talk about leaving mask right next to the front door.
So they're easy to grab.
You leave the house, and then I've certainly seen this most places I go in public anywhere where they have marks on the floor demonstrating 6 ft apart, and that just makes it so easy to stay 6 ft from.
Other people also talked about communication and clear, consistent messaging.
And they said, This is actually most important at the local level, and I feel like we've gotten pretty good messaging, clear, consistent messaging on a state level, which made me feel good about it.
One thing they talked about it...
The media has really been guilty about this so many pictures of, uh, people on the beaches or, um, at Sturgis or wherever, not doing what they're supposed to, because when you highlight the bad behavior.
It makes people think it's more prevalent than it actually is.
It tends to make people less willing to, um, actually do what you want them to do.
So you really want to be highlighting people doing what they're supposed to And then the other one that, unfortunately, the medical field, that a really bad job that initially is conceding uncertainty.
And we're interested the TV for medical people, you know, we just said there was no evidence for wearing it in public, and I still to this day I have people posting on Facebook that, you know, Doctor Fauci or the surgeon general said not to wear masks and, you know, it's from back in March.
But people absolutely believe that message from back in March.
So rather than saying, you know, this is what is true, we want to say, based on what we know today, it's sort of conceived we'd still don't know.
