1. Q: In those with prolonged symptoms, does that correlate with prolonged viral shedding and infectivity?

A: Think Nestor, from your initial.
Yeah no, I haven't seen that correlation.
Uh, I know that severe patient who have severe acute Covid meaning patients were in the ICU or hospitalized.
They tend to have a longer viral shedding than those who have milder asymptomatic disease.
But I haven't seen the correlation between long COVID the invasion recover and viral shedding.
And I think that's that's one of the questions.
If this is a viral phenomenon or any immune phenomenon and we still don't know, I know they're looking into that actively, they're they're they're having this cohort of patients in which they're doing immunological studies to see what type of immune reaction they have.
They trying to look for the virus in different issues to see if there's any persistent in the C and s or somewhere else.
But I haven't seen anything published yet.

2. Q: Did the increase in CV-19 relate to the increase in testing?

A: You know, right now, we think that there's multiple factors.
We kind of had many things change all at the same time.
So we have the long Labor Day holiday, and we know from our case interviews that there were a lot of people who traveled, had people from out of state travel to visit them.
Lots of family get togethers, Um, and at the same time, you know that very same weekend we liberalized indoor dining.
Indoor dining was open again.
Um, the number of people that you were allowed to have in an indoor space, um, increased things were, you know, looking good heading into that weekend.
Um, you know, some schools returned to in person learning, and, um, there were multiple other kind of recreational activities that were given the green light to open back up.
So you suddenly had, um, this long holiday weekend where you had travel.
You have family get togethers, events, and you also had people spending more time in.
You know, indoor spaces like restaurants, breweries, bars, um, skating rings, pumpkin patches, this, you know, sort of etcetera.
There were a lot of things that were kind of given the green light at the same time.
And so we think it's really a cumulative effect of all of those things, not any one thing.
But people definitely have reported increasing group activities and travel, including dining.

3. Q: If Covid19 is airborne, then we have to improve the ventilation in many/most places to created negative pressure. How is this being addressed?

A: I mean, I can comment on what at least a hypothetical or scientific data says, You know, ideally, yeah, if you're gonna be in a closed space, ideally that that room should have negative pressure.	
But obviously that's not feasible in most, you know, stores, you know, supermarkets, etcetera.	
So, you know, have to go to to have good ventilation if possible, to stop it like an air current.	
In some places, open the windows and the doors.	
If it's possible with the weather that that should help.	
Also conducting activities outdoors as opposed to indoor.	
And we've been doing that with restaurants and other things.	
So you know, everything helps a little bit.	
I think it's ah, it's a matter off improving, and if you're gonna be in a closed space, Hopefully there won't be that many people decreasing the chance of running into somebody with COVID.	
So so, no crowding, indoor spaces is also critical.	
So there.	
I think there are many, many factors.

4. Q: Based on what we know today, how relevant is to take the temperature of patients to enter a clinic?

If you if you think that that is something that should continue Yeah, I think it's similar to, um to what I said earlier about trying to sort of layer on some protections.
Many people who are infected don't ever develop a fever.
I've seen some numbers that say more than 50% of people never develop a fever.
Um, especially if they're in that early symptomatic or pre-symptomatic phase.
They're not gonna have a fever.
Um, so you're not going to catch everybody by taking their temperature, But you might catch a couple of people.
Um, so I think you're really trying to, You know, through the questions about exposure and symptoms and taking a temperature again, trying to sort of catch as many people as you can before they enter the space.
Um, probably just temperature checks alone are not gonna be very effective.
Um, you really need to be asking the questions about symptoms and known exposures to confirm cases.	
I think there's also a behavioral thing.
I mean, when you would you see somebody taking your temperature and asking you questions make you think twice about your symptoms.
If you have nothing, you go into a building, you know, like free.
We have seen.
I mean, in some of the cases that we have investigated, people have been symptomatic and they go to work.	
And, you know, if if you don't stop it and ask if they're like Yeah, well, now that you ask me, yeah, you have a little bit of, you know, aches and pains.
And I had a fever last night, but not not today.
So that's a type of situation that we face in reality with this patient.
That then later, later are are detected with COVID, so I think it's important.
It's a It's a behavioral thing that puts a stop on the door and make people think about their symptoms and remind them that we are in the midst of a pandemic.

5. Q: CDC says children less than 2 should not wear a mask; some pediatricians are advising children less than 5 should not wear a mask. How do we advise our clients?

A: I'm just going to comment that I have seen a lot of 2 to 5 year olds in clinic recently, and not one has had trouble wearing that face mask correctly.
So, um, it definitely can be done.
I don't know if in a setting like a day care how easy it would be to keep it on all day, but I will tell you for a medical setting, it has not been an issue at all.
Thanks doctor Hayes, Nestor or Marla.
Any thoughts on that?
No, I don't have any anything.
I mean, I have I have an eight year old at home and she wears the mask.
But I know when she's in school, she sometimes just put it below the nose, and I have tried to tell her not to do that, but it's like, you know, she's eight years old.
It's hard.

6. Q: In relation to airborne issues, does UV light work?

A: I read a Jet Blue I think one of the airlines is using kind of UV light as one of the ways to perhaps some, uh, you know, clean the airplane or do something, right?
I mean, I've seen this mostly on press release and think mostly on the press, like people using these robots with UV light in airports and large areas where the, you know, in in anything at the moment where there's no clients around.
They actually have done this, but I haven't really seen that much.
I mean, I remember at the beginning of the of the epidemic we had to do.
To use UV-lights or or hydrogen peroxide peroxide, toe clean or mask, our N95 or or sterilize our N95.	
So yeah, so UV lights can be used in both areas or, you know, areas where people are congregate after people have left, obviously, because of the risk of, of skin damage and radiation damage.
And and also for for objects, you know, like mask and surfaces, etcetera.
And you see all the times in the labs to to kill bacteria and other viruses.	
So yeah, but I mean, that's that's as far as I can say.

7. Q: Should we be using more N-95 type masks and less surgical masks in the healthcare settings?

A: It's a tough question.	
I mean, we here, um, I could give you the a really life experience.	
At the beginning, we were we were not able to to use the N95 on everybody.
So we we're limiting N95 to like, very high risk situations patients who you were going to perform like aerosol generating procedure.
But at that time, it wasn't There was that much science saying that it was actually airborne all the time.	
Now, more recently, that we are a little bit better with the N95 existence or or the number of N95 we are using N95 every time we contact or we're going to do care for a patient with COVID or a high suspicion of COVID the suspicion that we're waiting for a result because, you know, he had a close contact or something.	
So, yes, So we're using more N95.
Obviously, my concern And this is my personal opinion is that if We used to much When If we have another high peak, we're gonna run into trouble again with the N95.
So it's sort of ah, if a different, difficult decision.
So and then the other thing is that the everything showed that if if you you know, if you have adequate ventilation in the room, the procedure mask or the surgical mask confers decent protection.
We have seen the data from other hospitals that that have published their percentage of healthcare workers that are infected, and interestingly enough, the percentage is relatively low, very similar to the community, even in the hype of the epidemic.
And I'm talking about stories down in Boston, and York during the spring.
So so obviously, although theoretically a surgical mask, it's not enough In the practical sense if you, as I was saying, if you layer that, you know, with with adequate ventilation, negative pressure room taking, you know, using the face shield in front of the of the surgical mask, limiting your contact with the patient.	
Oh, you know what?
It is really necessary and not going out of the room many times during the day.
All of those measures increase the incidence and and protect the coworkers.
But always Well, yeah, if you wanna go into a room and you're gonna do a physical or something and you you suspect the patient has COVID I would recommend the N95 based on what we know now from from you know, different stories.

8. Q: Does the hospital have enough N-95?s for staff?

A: And I think your answer would be possibly now.
But not if we keep using it every day for all the staff.
Is that right?
I don't know how how many we have, but I know we're using it just for COVID patients or suspicion of COVID patients.
But no for the regular, you know, sprayer that comes into the ED.
In that case, we just wear, you know, the regular procedure mask, and and we do question the patient, you know, if they have a fever, cough, shortness of breath, anosmia.
But we're not using it all the time, because, yeah, we would run out of N95 in a few days if we use it in all patient contacts in all situations.

9. Q: COVID19 is transmitted via fomite, droplet and airborne, is it known which is the number one way people are getting it?

A: Yeah, the main way.
It's still thought to be the respiratory droplets.
So person to person, um, you know, obviously there is an opportunity for for my transmission, but we don't think that's the primary way that it's spread.
Um, you know.
And when CDC released the statement about aerosol transmission, they were very careful to say This doesn't appear to be the same kind of aerosol transmission that we see with TB or measles or varicella.	
Um, it's more of a limited aerosol transmission, So it's still thought that droplet at close person to person droplets spread is the primary way that the infections being transmitted.

10. Q: Are you going to be more or less likely to develop your own antibodies if you get monoclonal antibodies?

A: I have read and this is mostly press release and and other comments or a couple of basic science papers with the monoclonal.
The life of the monoclonal is a few weeks.	
So, yes, once you get an injection of monoclonal antibodies, it will circulate for for some time.
So So it's going to confer some at least neutralizing antibodies or antibodies against the spike protein, monoclonals are directed against the spike protein for sometime they don't go away in a couple of days.	
Like like regular drug they actually linger for for a while.
In one of the papers that I read, I remember, you know, see, in four weeks or one month of life, So you you have some some protection.
I don't know what's gonna happen to the immune respond, to the his own immune response If you If you blunt the with monoclonal antibodies, I, um I don't know.
I have to wait and see the large phase three trials with monoclonal and how the immune response We still produce antibodies to the virus or or this is some somehow blunted and also see the cell immunity.
It is going to be blunted by the passive immunity.
But I don't know, I I would just be speculating.


