All right.
Thanks, Doctor Thornton.
Good morning and good morning before a holiday weekend.
So it's good to see some, uh, fases, even though maybe no one's going anywhere for the holiday.
I know I'm not, but that's okay.
So thanks for joining us this morning, and I I asked a colleague of mine to give a presentation today on, Ah, diabetes.
And the reason, um, you know, the Wuhan data suggested that the patients that had the worst outcome were those with cardiovascular disease and, um, you know, age over, you know, 50 60 70 and I went up for decades.
Um, but what we noticed in our cohort of patients, the majority of patients that did poorly were actually diabetics and in potential obese diabetic.
So my question was, you know, what is there?
Is there something specific about diabetes that's putting these patients at risk and do?
Is there something that we haven't really talked about or, um, with this in particular?
So it's my pleasure to introduce.
Ah, my colleague, uh, met Bouchonville, who is an associate professor medicine.
He's an associate director for project echoes.
So many of you may already know him, and he runs his own endocrine echo.
Um and so I'm going to present a case.
Ah, patient that we, uh, got here and then I'll let Dr Bouchonville take over so we'll have our slides.
All right.
Next slide.
So this is a 46 year old woman who comes to the emergency department with dyspnea subjective fever chills and cough that really have been worsening over the last week on a review of systems her cough is dry.
It's not productive.
She feels a little nausea, but has not had any emesis or abdominal pain no polyuria polydipsia.
She feels a little lightheaded when she stands up.
Um, and this has all been happening over this week, and the symptoms have progressed during this week.
Her brother also had a viral infection.
Um, and, uh, her past medical history is obesity, and she used to take medications metformin for diabetes a couple years ago, but then she just stopped and thinks that's really just diet control diabetes.
But she also has not seen a primary care provider for over two years.
She's not on any medications.
And, of course, her family history is positive for diabetes and her father and her brother.
