And And what is it about diabetes that is making this?
Um, such a risk factor for patients with COVID.
So with that point Doctor Bouchonville?
I would welcome you.
Thank you for presenting this morning.
And, um, we're excited to learn from you.
My pleasure.
Thank you so much, Doctor Harkins what a case.
Um, I'm gonna go ahead and share my screen here so I can pull up my slides.
And, uh, let's see if your screen is like mine.
You have, ah thing on the right with all the people's faces, and you can kind of minimize that so you can see the whole screen.
Excuse me.
So, yeah, um, Dr Bouchonville.
I'm an endocrinologist I'm a diabetes specialist, and ah, I'm real excited to present.
Uh, this, uh, talk today is diabetes, a risk factor for COVID-19.
And let's see advancing slide here.
So no, no disclosures.
And hopefully, by the end of this talk, we'll be able to ah recognize that diabetes is a risk factor for complications of COVID-19 infection and we'll be able to understand some of the potential mechanisms for increased COVID-19 risk in patients with diabetes.
It's not fully fully understood, but there are a lot of, ah, a lot of possibilities that have been that have been studied, and we're gonna review that here.
So this is a, uh, I'm gonna start with this nice summary report, and there's if you have a copy of the slides.
The last slide is the reference is that you can find this this publication from the 88 that was just published this month and diabetes care, but it was a nice It's a nice summary of the early reports, mostly out of China, Um, about the risk of ah, of complications of COVID-19 in people with diabetes.
And so long story short is that thus far, there has not really been any evidence showing that people with diabetes are at a higher risk of getting COVID-19.
So if you have diabetes, uh, your risk of getting COVID-19 doesn't appear to be any different than people without diabetes.
At least there hasn't been any strong data to suggest that yet.
But for people with diabetes who get COVID-19, there is a lot of their strong evidence that the risk for complications of COVID-19 is much higher.
So maybe not a higher risk of getting COVID-19, but definitely a higher risk of complications.
And based on early reports from China, it appears that Glycemic control might play a role in the severity of the illness.
And I'll share with you some.
Some data that supports that as well is some data to suggest that it's more complicated than that, that there might be other things that play responsible for the increased risk we're seeing in people with diabetes.
And so ah, again, this was really based on early reports from China.
If we look at that data from the United States, we can see that this there's definitely been a signal there as well.
This was a publication from the New England Journal of Medicine recently.
This was ah, case series in the Seattle region of critically ill patients with COVID-19, Um, just a small number of patients.
24 patients across nine Seattle area hospitals and average age was 64.
But what was really striking is that the most common coexisting disorder was diabetes.
Almost 60% of this of this cohort were patients with diabetes, and that's a much higher prevalence.
60% of Ah, well, of course, higher than the prevalence we see in the United States but also looking at K series of how prevalent is diabetes in the hospital setting.
This is much higher than that.
So it suggested that there's there's something to having diabetes where they're at higher risk of having having complications.
A larger series that was more recently published in The New England Journal of Medicine in May.
This was a preliminary report of remdesivir for the treatment of COVID-19 um again larger series 1000 patients enrolled in this trial.
And here again, type two diabetes was very prevalent in that in that cohort, same with hypertension and obesity.
So kind of a metabolic syndrome profile for these patients who are more, uh, more ill, hospitalized with COVID-19 and then an even larger series published recently in JAMA.
So this was almost 6000 patients.
These were people hospitalized with COVID-19 in New York City and similar median age 63 years.
But same kind of pattern hypertension, obesity, diabetes seem with high prevalence in this cohort.
So, again, this these data aren't necessarily showing that people diabetes are at a higher risk of getting COVID-19.
But it does suggest that people with diabetes who get COVID-19 are are they're representing, Ah, high prevalence of people in the hospital that are sicker with COVID-19.
