Um, when I was gonna present, I thought this was a pretty cool article.
It's from JAMA.
And it was on the science of persuasion.
How you can, um I guess there's actually been a lot of studies on How do you persuade people to do things and, um, opportune lessons for COVID-19 prevention.
So they talked about the five habit promoting strategies which, um, if you want somebody to develop a habit, get exercising or, um, eating more vegetables or wearing a mask.
They said there's five things to do.
You want to make it easy to start and easy to repeat.
You wanna make it rewarding to repeat, you want to tie the behavior to an existing habit.
And I know I do this with people all the time suggesting they take pills when they first like that, and talk about behaviors that conflict with existing habits and provide alternative behaviors and provide specific descriptions of desire behaviors and they discussed for, um, the first one of making the behavior easy to start.
Repeat, making handwashing stations and hand sanitizer available everywhere really makes a difference on how often people wash their hands, and you know it's obvious.
But, um, often we don't have hand sanitizer readily available, so making it readily available.
Then they talk about leaving mask right next to the front door.
So they're easy to grab.
You leave the house, and then I've certainly seen this Most places I go in public anywhere where they have marks on the floor demonstrating 6 ft apart, and that just makes it so easy to stay 6 ft from.
Other people also talked about communication and clear, consistent messaging.
And they said, This is actually most important at the local level, and I feel like we've gotten pretty good messaging, clear, consistent messaging on a state level, which made me feel good about it.
One thing they talked about is....
The media has really been guilty about this so many pictures of, uh, people on the beaches or, um, at Sturgis or wherever, not doing what they're supposed to, because when you highlight the bad behavior.
It makes people think it's more prevalent than it actually is.
And it tends to make people less willing to, um, actually do what you want them to do.
So you really want to be highlighting people doing what they're supposed to. 
And then the other one that, unfortunately, the medical field, that a really bad job that initially is conceding uncertainty.
And we're interested the TV for medical people, you know, we just said there was no evidence for wearing it in public, and I still to this day I have people posting on Facebook that, you know, Doctor Fauci or the surgeon general said not to wear masks and, you know, it's from back in March.
But people absolutely believe that message from back in March.
So rather than saying, you know, this is what is true, we want to say, based on what we know today, it's sort of conceived we'd still don't know.
We're still learning lessons about this. 
And then Scientific American and, um, publish something this week, COVID is actually the third leading cause of death in the US for this year.
It became the third leading cause of death March 4th and it was actually the first leading cause of death from April 5th to May 3rd.
And it's been the third leading cause of death with about the year and then indirect effects on Children in New York state.
This one was actually really quite heartbreaking.
Um, the United Hospital Fund found that 4200 Children in New York had lost a parent to COVID-19 this year.
About 950 were Children of single parents and say, Well, they lost their only parent.
Um oh, it was one in 1000 Children in New York state lost a parent to COVID-19, um, one in 600 black Children, one in 700 Hispanic Children in one of 1500 white Children, Um, 57% were in Queens, Brooklyn or the Bronx, which were the hardest hit areas.
That was really that was fairly heartbreaking.
And then they also found that 325,000 Children were pushed into poverty or near poverty in New York, which was roughly 8% of Children in New York who had not been poverty before COVID-19 started were now in poverty.
And they estimated it was gonna cost anywhere from 550 to 800 million just to support the basic needs of these Children and household severe new, newly newly in or near poverty over the next year.
And they estimate that 40% of low income workers lost their jobs throughout the United States.
And those, of course, are the people who are the least able to absorb financial hit like that.
And I decided not to go into this.
This is fairly similar to the one I presented from Minnesota Department of Health last week, but there was a COVID-19 response toolkit it from the public elementary schools on how to deal with Children who are symptomatic or have a positive COVID in their family or an exposure, and then also updating from American Academy of Pediatrics on COVID-19 testing guidance.
And like I said, they're fairly similar to what we've already talked about.
But it was nice to have something from local, and the last was just some articles that I thought were really good.
I didn't necessarily think it was worth summarizing, but I thought they were worth either reading yourself or passing along to that difficult uncle on Facebook.
um COVID-19 myth busting by Robin.
I don't know how to pronounce it.
Schoenthaler I think she posts a lot on Facebook.
She's worth following on Facebook just for her post, but she wrote an article for Medium on the various myths around COVID, and this was quite good.
Um, UCSF had a grand rounds on October 6th.
Um, and they discuss President Trump's COVID-19 diagnosis and just sort of what it meant from a medical standpoint.
What you could tell what, um, what we know about the medications that were you to treat him.
It's veal on YouTube and then, um actually, um, the grand rounds is an hour and a half.
I didn't have time to watch it, but Julie Thompson MD is on Facebook, and she summarized it under personal Facebook page.
She's from Oakland.
There's multiple Julie Thompson's, but, um, her summary was really excellent, and I think it's worth looking at if you're on Facebook and then Emily Auster's schools aren't super spreaders from the Atlantic.
I'm still waiting to see definitive medical articles on this, but this was quite a good summary.
And then Elizabeth Ralph here, how the pandemic finally ends was also an article that was definitely worth reading.